Well today I'd like to work on the four arms of the character.
It's interesting though I realized that if I go over to the character images screen lay out you can
see that his forearms are covered with these kind of cuffs and the same with the lower legs.
For me the forearms are a difficult part of the human anatomy.
I never quite get it correct.
And it's interesting that I actually drew these things over it.
I don't know if subconsciously I was just trying to get out of doing the upper arms.
I think it's kind of funny that I did that.
I'm going to go back to the default view here and bring back my character on one.
So let's go ahead and work on the forearms.
I'm not going to do too much detail for this since they will be covered.
But we at least need to get the basic forms in.
So to begin with what I'm going to do is work on the back of the arm the elbow area now the back of
the arm has this area right above the elbow going into the triceps.
That's kind of tendon and bone that makes it kind of flat coming off of the actual elbow joint there.
So what I need to do is figure out where that point is I'm going to use the scope to draw brush for
now let me see if I can just place this so it looks fairly.
Let's just pretend like that's the elbow for now.
It looks like it should be down a little bit lower maybe when we do this let me place it right about
here.
For now let's see how that works.
That may be a little high.
They may extend it down here.
So from here there's kind of a flat area.
And what I can do is actually mask this area out and flatten it a bit.
Let's do that.
I'll take the mask tool and just right around in here I'm going to go ahead and just mask this off right
here.
See how this works.
And then as we've done before I'll invert that with control.
And now this area I'd like to come in and just try and flatten this let's see how this works.
There we go.
That didn't take too much.
Something like this.
And then for these kinds of things what I can do is invert that again and then come back with something
like the inflate brush here and gently kind of inflate the area around that.
So it kind of bulges around that area.
All right so since we're at a lower resolution we're not going to get a whole lot of detail here and
that's fine.
I'm just trying to block in the general shapes here.
All right.
So there's that flat part going to the elbow here.
We've got the tricep kind of wrapping around it and now I want to draw that bone going down from the
elbow to the wrist here.
What is that the ulna.
Let me use the scopes draw a brush and I just want to bring it to hint at it from here right straight
down like that.
So we'll use that as a kind of guide to create the muscles on either side of that for the forearm and
for this I want to mask out an area that begins by coming out of this area.
Right here it kind of inserts between the triceps and this Brocky Alice I believe.
And I want to curve it around to the front of the arm and come down here to the thumb.
So I'll go to the mask tool and let's start doing this here.
Bring it out of here around here.
Let's bring this on to the other side of the arm.
And maybe straight down.
Like this and over here it's going to come to that point and follow it down.
And to here now we haven't really blocked out the hands yet so that might cause us a little bit of a
problem but I think we can do this.
I'd like to try and get the bulk of it done before I work on the hand.
So let me fill this in.
And let's see if we can do with this control to invert the selection for the mask and back the clay
strips brush and let's see about doing this.
Now I'm going to just begin laying down some form here and the whole thing kind of twists around the
arm so many strokes kind of like this.
Now there's a huge temptation at this point in time for me to increase the subdivision levels so that
I can get more detail in here and I'm resisting that urge.
It's hard though you really want to increase the subdivision levels so you can get all the little striations
and nooks and crannies and everything.
But if you can resist the urge at this point in time I think it'll do you a good.
So I'm just trying to keep an eye on the form as I go here.
One thing about it that I probably haven't mentioned yet is I use a lot of reference images I've got
just because I'm interested in this kind of thing.
I've got images and posters on my wall of human anatomy.
I've got a very large human anatomy poster right above my computer so I can just look up and see the
human anatomy.
So my suggestion is to not try and do this just out of your head really have some reference images in
front of you whether you want to google it.
There's lots of human anatomy charts and images out on Google or if you want to get one of these posters.
Mine is from a place called freedom of teach dot com.
All right.
So I've got the general forms here I think of this part of the arm.
I'm going to now see if I can work on the other side the other side is always kind of tricky.
I'm going to clear the mask with.
Him and then let's try and figure out how we're going to do this.
I think I'd better hide the character so I can get in there a little bit easier.
So what I'm going to do is bring this guy over here and hit the H key and I'm just going to hide this
part of the character here.
And we go that will help me get in under here a little bit easier.
Now if you're ever having trouble tumbling around a certain point in sculped mode like I've got I'm
having trouble moving around here and I want to tumble around just this part of the arm but it's probably
tumbling around the center of the grid at this point in time making it very difficult to get in to right
where I want to be here.
One thing you can do is put your cursor over the place where you want to center up the tumble and press
alt F and it will zoom in to that point.
And now you can tumble around that location so that makes things a little easier.
So now for this part I think I'm just going to mask out this area that I've haven't sculpted yet and
work on that.
So I'll go back to the mask tool and I'll just mask this out here.
This is going to come out to this line right here and it's actually going to overlap that line just
a bit
and like this and fill this in all right.
So now invert it control.
I backed the clay strips or back here's the clay strips and then let's work on this a bit.
All right so there we go I've got a little bit of form laid out for that part of the forearm.
I've tried to keep it fairly thin down by the wrist area here.
And I'm trying to keep an eye on the forms of this part of the forearm too and I may even have made
the elbow a little bit too high.
It may need to come down a bit.
But generally speaking I think that's pretty good for now.
I will probably then go and work on the hands next here let's bring everything back.
I'll choose him to undo the mask and I'll press old H to bring back the rest of the character.
And so here is what we've got for the forearms.
I think I will probably work a little bit more in this area here.
Maybe bring up the form a little bit more in here and maybe even cut it a bit here.
Now ultimately I'm going to want this to insert more in between these two muscles here of the forearm
and I'll want more of definition.
This is all still pretty rough and we're still just suggesting the forms but I think that's a good beginning
for our forearm here.
The good part about it is as I said his it will be covered up.
So whether I did that subconsciously or not that's going to help me out.